(edited for obsolete content - *njk*)

Congratulations!  You are now reading the installation information file
for UltraRogue Release 1.  I would appreciate forwarding bug reports and 
descriptions of local enhancements so that I may incorporate them into 
the latest release.

Note carefully that Alpha versions are considered test versions with
probably tons of bugs and incomplete implementations of things.  Beta
versions are more reliable, but probably still contain major bugs.
Versions without an Alpha or Beta designation are considered
"production" and bugs reported may not be fixed until the next official
version is announced.  

Modify the initialization constants in tunable.c before you run
make.  Note that HOLIDAY is really a boolean and is currently set to
allow playing at any time provided load is low.  Setting HOLIDAY to 1
will prevent playing between 9 and 5 during weekdays no matter what the
load is.  Everything else there should be self explanatory.  The lav
program is the only one that needs to have read access to /dev/kmem.
Urogue itself can have an owner of anything as long as it's owner can
write into the score file and read the passctl and permok files used
for control.  If you have an older version of urogue, srogue, or
arogue, the .rog_defs and .rogue_save files are incompatible.  Some
earlier versions of urogue retained the encryption algorithms for
reading and writing that are used by other rogue versions.  Versions
1.02 Alpha and onwards use a different and more secure algorithm,
although it still will not even slow down the NSA.

Review the makefile to verify that the specified uid's and other
such things exist or need modification for your environment.

After running make, then run "control -i" (for initialize).  This will
set up the list of people allowed to bypass load control and also
allows you to specify the wizard's password.  To initialize the score
file so that there is something in it, play a game and kill at least
one monster before quitting.  When the scorefile is empty, urogue will
file it

For testing the game, the environment variable SEED can be set to
contain an integer seed.  This seed is used only if you start up urogue
with the wizard's password prompt by urogue "".

Restoring a saved game is done by "urogue -r" for the default save file
of ~/rogue.save.  Any other name is restored by "urogue save-file".

There are 8 different treasures to be picked up in this version of rogue.
The first is on level 25 and is relatively easy to pick up.  The last is
on level 100 and is very difficult to get.  Carrying any one of the unique
treasures allows the rogue to go up the stairs, but one has to be
very careful.

The environment variable SROGUEOPTS is used to setup the default things
for a player.  The options that can be set are:

terse:		short output messages
flush:		flush typeahead when fighting
jump:		show position only at the end of running
step:		show inventories one line at a time
askme:		ask about unidentified things
name:		the rogue's name
fruit:		the funny fruit used by the rogue
file:		default savefile name
score:		default scorefile name
class:		default player class

Herb Chong, BASc
Computer Consultant 

I'm user-friendly -- I don't byte, I nybble....